                    Project Report of RISC-V CPU
                    (Course Project of Computer Architecture)

                                   Zhou Fan (范舟)
                    ACM Class, Shanghai Jiao Tong University


1     Introduction
      GitHub repository of my CPU project: https://github.com/Evensgn/RISC-V-CPU
      This project is a RISC-V CPU with five-stage pipeline, implemented in Verilog HDL.


2     Design

2.1     Features
      Main features of this RISC-V CPU are briefly introduced in the table below.

               Feature                          RISC-V CPU

         ISA                RISC-V (RV32I subset)
         Pipelining         5 stages
         Data forwarding complete forwarding path
         Cache              N-way set associate I-cache and D-cache1
         UART module        passed simulation 2
         Security           perfect proof against Meltdown and Spectre attack 3


    1. The cache is based on Zhekai Zhang’s (张哲恺) code [4] .

    2. UART module has not passed test on FPGA yet for the limited time. I re-designed
       part of CPU code to avoid hidden danger on FPGA, and it may need some more
       debugging.

    3. Just kidding ;-) That’s because the CPU is not with branch prediction or out-of-
       order execution.


                                            1
2.2     Specification
      The CPU has a standard 5-stage pipeline with complete path data forwarding. Data
produced by EX stage or MEM stage is passed to ID stage, which avoids most of RAW
data hazard under ideal conditions (causes stall only if producer is a load instruction).
      The picture below shows structure of the CPU design, each module is implemented
in a single verilog file. Red paths show the stall control flow, while orange ones show data
forwarding path.




                              Fig. 1: Overview of CPU Design

   • Instruction fetching, Load/Store instruction or data dependency may cause stall of
       pipeline, the logic of stall is managed by a stall controller module. It receives stall
       requests from IF/ID/MEM stage, and emit stall signals to modules that should
       pause.

   • For program test on FPGA without capable memory, the CPU uses UART protocol
       to communicate with PC, where runs a memory simulator written in C++.

   • Latency of UART communication makes it significant to use a cache, the cache is
       N-way associate using LRU replacement policy. It is based on code from Zhekai
       Zhang’s MIPS CPU project.

      The CPU with cache and UART module passed simulation in Xilinx Vivado using
multiple test programs. But something goes wrong when tested on FPGA (Basys 3),

                                              2
which is explained in the next section.




         Fig. 2: Communication with memory simulator using UART protocol



3    Thinkings
Efficiency    Time efficiency is always a significant issue in CPU design. When I wrote
code for stall logic and Branch/Jump instruction processing part, I tried to minimize
number of unused clock cycle. But when UART latency is considered, all of those opti-
mization lose their meaning: UART communication is the only bottleneck of the pipeline,
and even the pipeline is not a pipeline any more, for an instruction would goes through
all stages before the next instruction is fetched. Though there is I-cache, it only works
for loops. Therefore, UART may not be a perfect solution to memory simulation.

Experience with FPGA           After cache and UART module passed simulation, I tested
the CPU on Basys 3 FPGA, it read the first 5 instructions correctly but did not jump at
the 5th instruction, which is a branch instruction. That test program did not go wrong in
Vivado simulation. In the last two days before deadline I tried to find the bug but did not
make it. Zhanghao Wu gave me a tutorial about always @ blocks [5] , from which I learned
about latch generation. My original design for stall control with IF stages caused some
latch inferring, which could be ”a terrible place for bugs” [5] . I re-designed part of code to
avoid latches, and found that it may need some more debugging. From this experience,


                                              3
I learned that some hidden trouble would not reveal itself in simulation. And I should
have learned more about Verilog HDL before starting to write code.

Automation To compile and assemble test programs RISC-V toolchain and some other
tools are used. Many commands are needed in this process. I wrote a Makefile and found
it really helpful. Automation improves efficiency and it feels good!


4    Acknowledgements
    Special thanks would go to Zhanghao Wu (吴章昊) for his instructive discusstions
and useful suggestions on this project. I would like to express my gratitude to TA Zhekai
Zhang (张哲恺) as well, for his MIPS CPU project (especially the code of cache and
UART module) and much work for this assignment. I am also indebted to many other
classmates for their direct and indirect help to me.


5    Appendix




            Fig. 3: Implementation on Basys 3 FPGA, using Xilinx Vivado




                                            4
                              Fig. 4: Scematic Overview




                            Fig. 5: CPU Module Scematic


References
[1] 雷思磊. 自己动手写 CPU, 电子工业出版社, 2014.

[2] John L. Hennessy, David A. Patterson, et al. Computer Architecture: A Quantitative
   Approach, Fifth Edition, 2012.

[3] David A. Patterson. PPT of CS252 Graduate Computer Architecture, 2001.



                                          5
[4] Zhekai Zhang’s (张哲恺) MIPS CPU project. https://github.com/sxtyzhangzk/
   mips-cpu

[5] Chris Fletcher. Verilog: always @ Blocks




                                           6
